[Music]
doesn't touch your face and teachers and
I haven't touched my face in weeks
because we can't help it it's part of it
it's part of our DNA we're hardwired to
do it we know this because humans as
young as fetuses in utero touch their
faces so every time you tell yourself
stop touching your face don't touch your
face if I touch my face I'm gonna get
really ill it's telling yourself to do
something that it's entirely unnatural
to you when we touch our faces what
we're really doing is calming ourselves
down when we touch certain areas of our
faces what we're really doing is we're
activating certain pressure points which
then activate something called the
parasympathetic nervous system which is
the thing that makes us calm ourselves
down internally we see the same response
in dogs and cats children often model
the same behavior as their parents so if
our parents when they're shocked they
touch their faces or when they're
surprised they touch their faces or if
they're upset they touch their faces
we're much more likely to do exactly the
same thing there are any is at a time
when it's more important than ever to
not touch your face unconsciously
your mind is constantly moving to a
place where it can better protect you by
doing the things that it knows will
soothe you and so your unconscious mind
will prompt your hands to go straight to
your face whilst it's almost impossible
to totally stop touching your face a key
way that you can go about making it
easier for me to take out the habits
which need you to do it so that might
mean wearing glasses instead of contact
lenses it might mean wearing less makeup
so you don't have to top it up
throughout the day it might also mean
creating habits around how you use your
hands so rather than perhaps when you're
always moving around and having your
hands like this and making it so easy
for them to land on your face making an
effort to cross your hands and put them
on your lap then when the urge comes to
pick your hands up and touch your face
you will be more aware of what you're
doing and you'll be quickly to catch
yourself I cleaned my hands before I
touched my face
[Music]